hey guys it's funny someone just
mentioned MacGyver because that was like
I loved it and like when I was seven I
taped a fork to it a drill and I was
like hey mom going all of garden and and
it worked really well there and you know
it had a profound effect on me it sounds
silly but like I thought okay the way
the world works can be changed and it
can be changed by me in these small ways
and you know my relationship to you know
especially human-made objects which
someone else said they work like this
well I can say they work a different way
a little bit and so about 20 years later
I didn't realize the full effect of this
but I went to Costa Rica and I stayed
with these grimy natives there and they
can pull leaves off of trees and make
shingles out of a man they could make
beds out of trees and they kid like I
watch this woman for three days I was
there she was peeling this palm frond
apart these little threads off of it and
she drooled the threads together and
make little thicker threads like strings
and she would weave the strings together
and as the materiality of this exact
very bag formed before my eyes over
those three days the materiality of the
way the world works of reality kind of
started to unravel in my mind because I
realized that this bag and these clothes
and the trampoline you have at home in
the pencil sharpener everything you have
is made out of either a tree or a rock
or something and we dug out of the
ground and did some process to maybe a
more complicated one but still
everything that's made that way and so I
had to start studying who is it that's
making these decisions who's making
these things how do they make them what
stops us from making because this is
like how reality is created so I started
right away I was at MIT Media Lab and I
was studying the maker movement and
makers and creativity and I started in
nature because I saw these guianese
doing it in nature and there seems to be
less barriers so I went to Vermont to
not
back-to-school camp where there's
unschoolers who are just kind of hanging
out and willing to try anything so I
said let's go into the woods near this
stream and just put stuff together you
know make something I don't care
geometrical shape just grab some junk
from around you we won't bring anything
with us and like within minutes this is
very easy for adults and teens to do
here's a triangle that was being formed
underneath a flowing stream and in the
shape of an oak leaf being made by other
small oak leaves being put together a
leaf tied to a stick with a blade of
grass the materiality and fleshiness and
meat of the mushroom being explored by
how it can hold up different objects
being stuck into it and after about 45
minutes you get really intricate
projects like leaves sorted by hue so
you get a color fade and put in a circle
like a wreath and the creator of this
you know he said this is fire I call
this fire and someone asked him how do
you get those sticks to stay on that
tree and he's like I don't know but I
can show you and I'm like wow that's
really amazing he doesn't know but he
can show you so his hands know and his
intuition knows but sometimes what we
know gets in the way of what could be
especially when it comes to human made
human built world we think we already
know how something works so we can't
imagine how it could work we know how
it's supposed to work so we can't
suppose all the things that could be
possible so kids don't have his heart of
a time with this and I saw in my own son
I gave him this book you know I'm a good
hippie dad so I'm like okay you're gonna
learn to love the moon I'm gonna give
you some building blocks and you're
gonna if they're non rectilinear cactus
building blocks so it's totally legit
but you know he doesn't really know what
to do with these I didn't show him and
so he's like okay I'll just mess around
with this this is no different than the
sticks are to the teens in the forest
there's gonna you know try to put him in
shapes and push on him and stuff and
before long he's kind of got this like
mechanism where you can almost like
launch a catapult objects around and he
enlists us in helping him and at this
point I'm starting to wonder you know
like what kind of tools can we give
people especially like adults who know
too much so that they can see the world
is malleable so they see themselves as
agents of change in their everyday lives
because like the most advanced
scientists are really just kind of like
pushing the way the world itself works
pushing what matter can do the most
advanced artists are just pushing the
medium and any sufficiently complicated
task whether you're a cook or a
carpenter you're raising a child like
anything that's complicated comes up
with problems that aren't solved in the
middle of it and you can't get it do a
good job getting it done unless you can
say okay well we're just gonna have to
refigure this I don't care you know that
pencils are supposed to be for writing
I'm gonna use them a different way so
let me show you a little demo this is a
little piano circuit right in here and
this is an ordinary paint brush that I
smashed it together with and so with
some ketchup and then I can kind of and
that's awesome right but but this is not
what's awesome what's awesome is that
what happens when you give it to the
piano circuit to people the pencils not
just a pencil look what it has in the
middle of it that's like a wire running
down the middle and not only is it a
wire if you take that piano circuit you
can thumbtack into the middle of a
pencil and you can lay out wire on the
page - and get electrical current to run
through it and so you can kind of hack
just like a pencil just by a thumb
tacking into it with a little piano
electrical circuit
and the electricity runs through your
body too and then you can take the the
little panel check it off the pencil you
can make one of these brushes just on
the fly all you do is connect to the
bristles and the bristles are wet so
they conduct and the person's body
conducts and lather is great to paint on
and then you can start hooking to
everything even the kitchen sink the
metal in the sink is conductive flowing
water acts like a theremin or a violin
and you can even hook to the trees like
anything in the world is either
conductive or not conductive and you can
use those together so I took this to
those same teens because those teens are
really awesome and and they'll try
things that I won't try I don't even
have access to a facial piercing if I
wanted to and this young woman she made
what she called a hoola looper and as
the hula-hoop traveled around her body
she has a circuit taped to her shirt
right there you can see her pointing to
it in the picture and every time the
hula hoop would smush against her body
it would connect to little pieces of
copper tape and it would make a sound
and the next sound and it would loop the
same sounds over and over again I ran
these workshops everywhere in Taiwan at
an art museum this twelve-year-old girl
made a mushroom organ out of some
mushrooms that were from Taiwan and some
electrical tape and hot glue and
professional designers we're making
artifacts with this thing strapped onto
it and big companies like Intel or
smaller design firms like I do or
startups like bump or inviting me to
give workshops just to practice this
idea of Smashing electronics and
everyday objects together and then we
came up with this idea to not just use
electronics but let's just smash
computers with everyday objects and see
how that goes over and so I just want to
do a quick demo so this is the makey
makey circuit and I'm just gonna set it
up like from the beginning in front of
you so I'll just plug it in and now it's
on by USB and I'll just hook up the
forward arrow you guys are facing that
way so I'll hook it to this one and I'll
just hook up a little ground wire to it
and now if I touch this piece of pizza
the slides that I showed you before
should go forward and now if I
hook up this wire just by you know
connecting it to the left arrow I'm kind
of programming it by where I hook it up
now I have a left arrow and a right
arrow so I should be able to go forward
and backwards and forwards and backwards
awesome and so we're like we got to put
a video out about this because no one
really believed that this was important
or meaningful except me and like one
other guy so we made a video to prove
that you know there's lots of stuff you
can do you can kind of sketch with
playdough and just like Google for like
game controllers just ordinary playdough
nothing special and you can literally
draw joysticks and you know just like
find pac-man on your computer and then
hook it up and you know like the little
plastic doors you can get at Target well
you take those out they hold water great
but you can totally cut your toes so
yeah just be careful you know that like
the Happiness Project we're like the
experts are setting up in canno stairs
and how cool that is well like I think
it's cool but like we should be doing
that stuff ourselves it shouldn't be a
set of experts engineering the way the
world works we should all be
participating it changing the way the
world works together aluminum foil
everybody has a cat getting a bowl of
water this is just photobooth on your
Mac OS hover the mouse over that takes a
photo button and you've got a little cat
photobooth and so we needed hundreds of
people to buy this if hundreds of people
didn't buy this we couldn't put it on
the market and so we put it up on
Kickstarter and hundreds of people
bought it in the first day and then 30
days later 11,000 people had backed the
project and then what the best part is
we started getting a flood of videos in
of people doing crazy things with it so
this is the star-spangled banner by
eating lunch including drinking
Listerine and we actually sent this guy
materials were like we're sponsoring you
man you're like a pro maker
okay just wait for this one this is good
and these guys at the Exploratorium are
like playing like houseplants as if they
were drums and dads and daughters are
like completing circuits and special
ways and then this brother like look at
this diagram see where it says sister I
love when people put humans on the
diagram I always add humans to any any
technical if you're drawing a technical
diagram put a human in it this kid is so
sweet he made this trampoline slideshow
advancer for his sister so that on her
birthday she could be the start of the
show jumping on the trampoline to
advance the slides and this guy rounded
up his dogs and he made a dog piano and
like you know like this is like fun and
what could be more useful than feeling
alive and fun but it's also very serious
because you know we all this
accessibility stuff started coming up
where people can't use computers
necessarily like this dad who wrote us
his son has cerebral palsy and he can't
use a normal keyboard and so his dad you
know couldn't necessarily afford to buy
all these custom controllers and so with
the makey makey he planned to make these
gloves to allow him to navigate the web
and a huge eruption of discussion around
accessibility came and we're really
excited about that we didn't plan for
that at all and then all these
professional musicians started using it
like at Coachella just this weekend
Jurassic 5 was using this on stage and
this DJ is just from Brooklyn right uh
you know right around here and he put
this up last month and I love to care it
on the turntable
[Music]
most people cannot play them that way
and when this started to get serious I
thought I better put a really serious
warning label on the box that this comes
in because otherwise people are going to
be getting this and they're gonna be
turning into agents of creative change
and governments will be crumbling and I
wouldn't have told people so I thought
I'd better warn them and I also put this
little surprise when you open the lid of
the box that says the world is a
construction kit and as you start to
kind of mess around this way I think
that in in some small ways you do start
to see the landscape of your everyday
life a little bit more like something
you could express yourself with and a
little bit more like you could
participate in designing the future of
the way the world works and so like you
know next time you're on a escalator and
you drop an M&M by accident you know
maybe that's a M&M surfboard not an
escalator so don't pick it up right away
maybe take some more stuff out of your
pockets throw it down and maybe some
chapstick whatever and you know I used
to have want to design like a utopic
Society or or a perfect world or
something like that but as I'm kind of
getting older and kind of messing with
all this stuff I'm realizing that my
idea of a perfect world really can't be
designed by one person or even by a
million experts that's really gonna be 7
billion pairs of hands each following
their own passions and each kind of like
a mosaic coming up and creating this
world in their backyards and in their
kitchens and that's the world I really
want to live in thank you
[Applause]